<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
	<head>
		<title>OntoRama Documentation: Developer Section</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1 align="center">
			Developer Documentation
		</h1>
		<insertPrintLink href="menus_print.html"/>
		<ul>
			<li>
				<a href="#examples">Examples Menu</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="#history">History Menu Behaviour</a>
			</li>
		</ul>

		<h3><a name="examples">Examples Menu</a></h3>
		<p>
			Examples Menu allows  user to load different ontologies.
			The majority of examples are WebKB2 output. There is a subsection of Menu called 'Web Examples' which contains the
			examples of ontologies found on the web.
		</p>
		<h4>Adding new examples.</h4>
		<p>
			All examples loaded by OntoRama are described in examplesConfig.xml file. Here is brief description of this file
			Here is a sniplet of Ontorama Examples config file:
		</p>

<xml>
<ontoramaExamples>
    <example name="Comms Ontology" root="comms#CommsObject" loadOnStart="yes">
        <source uri="examples/comms_comms_object-children.rdf"
                            sourcePackagePathSuffix="JarSource"/>
        <queryOutputFormat>RDF</queryOutputFormat>
        <parserPackagePathSuffix>rdf.RdfDamlParser</parserPackagePathSuffix>
    </example>
  ......
    <example name="International Movies Database" root="#IMdb">
        <source uri="examples/web-examples/imdb.rdf"
            sourcePackagePathSuffix="JarSource"/>
        <queryOutputFormat>RDF</queryOutputFormat>
        <parserPackagePathSuffix>rdf.RdfDamlParser</parserPackagePathSuffix>
        <displayMenu subfolder="Web Examples"/>
    </example>
    <example name="Ontorama Xml Test" root="root">
        <source uri="examples/ontorama-test.xml"
            sourcePackagePathSuffix="JarSource"/>
        <queryOutputFormat>XML</queryOutputFormat>
        <parserPackagePathSuffix>xml.XmlParserFull</parserPackagePathSuffix>
        <displayMenu subfolder="Test Cases"/>
    </example>
</ontoramaExamples>
</xml>
		<p>
			Root Element of the configuration file is element 'ontoramaExamples'.
			Root Element can contain any number of 'example' elements.
		</p>
		<p>
			Each 'example' element has following attributes:
			<ul>
				<li>
					Name attribute: 'name'. Specifies a label that will appear for corresponding menu item in the
					Examples menu
				</li>
				<li>
					Root attribute: 'root'. Specifies root element of this ontology.
				</li>
                <li>
                    Attribute "loadOnStart" is specified for the example that should be
                    loaded first. Value of this attribute should be "true", here is an
                    example: 'loadOnStart="true"'.
                </li>
			</ul>
			</p>
			<p>
			Children of Example element:
			</p>
			<ul>
				<li>
					source element. Describes ontology source. Attributes:
						<ul>
							<li>
								uri: specifies source/location of this ontology. This should be either:
								<ol>
									path relative to Class Loader
								</ol>
								<ol>
									valid URL
								</ol>
							</li>
							<li>
								sourcePackagePathSuffix: name of class to use to parse this source.
								At the moment the following are available:
                                <ul>
                                    <li>
								JarSource is used if application is packaged in the jar file and location
								of an example is relative to ClassLoader.
                                    </li>
                                    <li>
								UrlSource can be used for Web-based ontologies. (Some restrictions will apply
								in relation to Java Webstart. Possibly can only run ontologies that come from the
								same host as the application. Have to CHECK and TEST this!!!!)
                                    </li>
                                </ul>
							</li>
                            <li>
                                WebKB2Source can be used to connect to WebKB2 Ontology Server.
                            </li>
						</ul>
				</li>
				<li>
					queryOutputFormat element. Specifies what query output format to use, at the moment this is
					not used. The intention of this property is for WebKB2 integration, this
                    element allows us to specify format of WebKB output.
				</li>
				<li>
					parserPackagePathSuffix element. Specifies what parser to use for this ontology.
					Available parsers at the moment: xml.XmlParserFull, rdf.RdfDamlParser and RdfWebkbParser.
				</li>
			</ul>
		<h4>Location of example files and examplesConfig.xml</h4>
		<p>
			Configuration file is located in the root directory of the executables.
		</p>
		<p>
			Distribution of Java Webstart includes 'examples' directory with all needed ontologies. This was done
			so the demo prototype can be standalone and doesn't have to read files off the local drive (due to
			security restrictions of Java Webstart applications).
		</p>
		<p>
			In any case examples are located in the directory 'examples' off the root directory of the executables.
			In another words, in all cases (java webstart and running as an application by other means), examples
			are located in 'examples' dir relative to ClassLoader.
		</p>
		<h3><a name="history">History</a></h3>
		<p>
			The History feature is usefull if a user browsing multiple ontologies and multiple terms
			in those ontologies in one sesssion. This feature allows a user to 'jump' to terms he/she
			would like to return to without having to remember which ontology to load. We tried to have
			our 'history' behaviour consistent with behaviour of "History" in most common programs, such as
			Internet Explorer and Netscape.
		</p>
		<p>
			Here are main principles:
			<ul>
				<li>
					If a user clicks on one of the examples in the "Examples" menu - we append this example to the
					History. If a user submits a new query or a query for an item in the current ontology -
					we also append this query to the History.
				</li>
				<li>
					However, if user clicks on one of the history items, we will display this item and 'tick' it in
					the menu, but history won't be appended with this item.
				</li>
				<li>
					If user clicks on an example that has been displayed before - it get's appended to the history.
				</li>
			</ul>
		</p>
		<p>
			Back and Forward buttons are available in the tool bar and also in History Menu to simplify moving through
			the history items.
		</p>
		</body>
</html>
