<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
	<head>
		<title>OntoRama Demo</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1 align="center">
			OntoRama Demo
		</h1>
	    <p>
			In order to use this application  you will need to 
			<a href="http://java.sun.com/cgi-bin/javawebstart-platform.sh?"> 
				download Java Webstart
			</a>. 
		</p>
		<p>
		Please Note: if your browser is Netscape 6, you will need to manually configure Netscape 6 for Java Webstart.
		To do this, go to Edit:Preferences Menu. In section Category, choose and expand section Navigator, click on
		'Helper Applications' and if you don't have type for jnlp file already, click on 'New Type' button. When
		prompted, fill in following details: enter something like 'java webstart' for name, extension should be 'jnlp'
		and mime type 'jnlp'. Then click on 'Choose' button and select Java Webstart application (javaws).
		
		This will be done automatically in a later version of the Java Web Start
		</p>
		<p>
			Once Webstart is installed - you are ready to 
				<a href="http://www.webkb.org/ontorama/deployWebstart/OntoRama.jnlp">
					launch OntoRama  
				</a>
        </p>		
		<p>
		If you have problems launching OntoRama:
		<ol>
			<li>
				make sure that Java Webstart is installed.
			</li>
			<li>
				try some other java webstart programs, for instance demos from sun's website: 
				http://java.sun.com/products/javawebstart/demos.html
			</li>
		</ol>
		If your Java Webstart is installed correctly and when you try to run the above applications you get an error:
		"Unable to launch application", we suspect that your firewall may not be allowing files with extension .jnlp
		through (file needed to launch Webstart application). In this case, you would be able to use an alternative
		distribution copy of OntoRama that is launched fro local system rather then from the Web (Download link is
		below). We appologize for this inconvenience.
		</p>
		<p>
		If, on another hand, the problem we describe above is not what you are experiencing: please let us know. 
		</p>

	</body>
</html>
