<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
	<head>
		<title>OntoRama Demo</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1 align="center">
			OntoRama Demo
		</h1>
	    <p>
			In order to use this application  you will need to 
			<a href="http://java.sun.com/cgi-bin/javawebstart-platform.sh?"> 
				download Java Webstart
			</a>. 
		</p>
		<p>
		Please Note: if your browser is Netscape 6, you will need to manually configure Netscape 6 for Java Webstart.
		To do this, go to Edit:Preferences Menu. In section Category, choose and expand section Navigator, click on
		'Helper Applications' and if you don't have type for jnlp file already, click on 'New Type' button. When
		prompted, fill in following details: enter something like 'java webstart' for name, extension should be 'jnlp'
		and mime type 'jnlp'. Then click on 'Choose' button and select Java Webstart application (javaws).
		
		This will be done automatically in a later version of the Java Web Start
		</p>
		<p>
			Once Webstart is installed - you are ready to 
				<a href="http://www.ontorama.org/deployWebstart/OntoRama.jnlp">
					launch OntoRama  
				</a>
        </p>	
		<hr/>
		<h4>
		If you have problems launching OntoRama
		</h4>
		<ol>
			<li>
				make sure that Java Webstart is installed.
			</li>
			<li>
				try some other java webstart programs, for instance demos from sun's website: 
				<a href="http://java.sun.com/products/javawebstart/demos.html">http://java.sun.com/products/javawebstart/demos.html</a>
			</li>
		</ol>
		<hr/>
		<p>
		If your Java Webstart is installed correctly and when you try to run the 
		above applications you get an error:
		"Unable to launch application", we suspect that your firewall may not be allowing files 
		with extension .jnlp
		through (file needed to launch Webstart application). In this case try:
		<ul>
			<li>
				Reset your proxy setting in Java Webstart to manual.
				To do that: start Java Webstart, go to File:Preferences. In the 
				dialog box choose 'General' tab. In 'Proxies' section click on
				'Manual' and type in your settings.
			</li>
			<li>
				If of the above fails - you can use an alternative
				distribution copy of OntoRama (see below) that is launched from 
				local system rather then from the Web. 
				We apologize for this inconvenience.
			</li>
		</ul>
		</p>
		<h4>Running OntoRama locally</h4>
		<p>
			To run OntoRama locally, <a href="http://www.ontorama.org/deployWebstart/ontorama.zip">
			download ontorama.zip</a> and unzip it on your local drive.
		</p>
		<p>
			For instance, unzip into directory 'C:\ontorama' (Windows OS), then double click on 
			OntoRamaLocal.jnlp. 
		</p>
		<p>
			If Java Webstart 
			is installed correctly, you should see OntoRama loading.
		</p>
		<p>
			If you wish to unzip ontorama  into a different directory,
			you will need to edit OntoRamaLocal.jnlp file and specify alternative location by changing href in the followind line:
		</p>
		<xml>
		<jnlp spec="1.0+" codebase="file:///c:/ontorama/" href="OntoRamaLocal.jnlp">
		...
		</jnlp>
		</xml>
		<p>
			Note, value of attribute 'href'	should be valid url (in particular, on a local system, it should contain 'file:/' in it).
		</p>
		<p>
			For example, if you wish to use "C:\temp\ontorama" directory, then change the above line to 
		</p>
		<xml>
		<jnlp spec="1.0+" codebase="file:///c:/temp/ontorama/" href="OntoRamaLocal.jnlp">
		...
		</jnlp>
		</xml>
		<p>
		Disadvantage of this approach is that if defies the purpose of Webstart: you won't get automated updates.
		Each time the application is updated, you will need to download and unzip the updated file.
		</p>
		<hr/>
		<p>
		If, on another hand, the problem we describe above is not what you are experiencing: please let us know. 
		</p>

	</body>
</html>
